README.md, before:

# Critic-Driven Decoding for Mitigating Hallucinations in Data-to-text Generation

## Critic classifier training
### Generating data

- ver 1. critic (base)
```
python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train_onlystop.py SPLIT_NAME
```
`SPLIT_NAME` is a placeholder for "train", "test", and "dev". To generate all necessary data, you should run the command three times i.e.
```
python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train_onlystop.py train
python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train_onlystop.py test
python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train_onlystop.py dev
```

- ver 2. critic (base with full sentences)
```
python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train.py SPLIT_NAME 
```
- ver 3. critic (vanilla LM)
```
python3 ./bin/decode.py \
    --model_name facebook/bart-base \
    --experiment webnlg \
    --in_dir data/webnlg \
    --split SPLIT_NAME \
    --accelerator gpu \
    --devices 1 \
    --beam_size 1 \
    --condition_lambda 1.0 \
    --critic_top_k 5 \
    --batch_size 8\
    --out_filename FILE_NAME --wrapper data --load_in_8bit
 ```
where `--model_name` is the name of LM used to generate data from huggingface (here: `facebook/bart-base`)
```
python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train_fromLM.py SPLIT_NAME FILE_NAME-data
```
- ver 4. critic (fine-tuned LM)

Put the checkpoint of fine-tuned language model into `experiments/webnlg/CHECKPOINT_NAME` path. Our BART-based LM model fine-tuned on WebNLG can be downloaded from `https://we.tl/t-1aufs3tnyS`
```
python3 ./bin/decode.py \
    --experiment webnlg \
    --checkpoint CHECKPOINT_NAME \
    --in_dir data/webnlg \
    --split SPLIT_NAME \
    --accelerator gpu \
    --devices 1 \
    --beam_size 1 \
    --condition_lambda 1.0 \
    --critic_top_k 5 \
    --batch_size 8\
    --out_filename FILE_NAME --wrapper data --load_in_8bit

python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train_fromLM.py SPLIT_NAME FILE_NAME-data
```
- ver 5. critic (fine-tuned LM with full sentences)
```
python3 ./bin/decode.py \
    --experiment webnlg \ 
    --checkpoint CHECKPOINT_NAME \
    --in_dir data/webnlg \
    --split SPLIT_NAME \
    --accelerator gpu \
    --devices 1 \
    --beam_size 1 \
    --condition_lambda 1.0 \
    --critic_top_k 5 \
    --batch_size 8\
    --out_filename FILE_NAME --wrapper data-full --load_in_8bit

python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train_fromLM.py SPLIT_NAME FILE_NAME-data
```
## Training the critic
Put the generated training data into OUT_DIR. The OUT_DIR directory should contain 3 files: `train.csv`, `test.csv`, and `dev.csv` with the training/test/validation data (these files should be generated by `gen_train*.py` scripts -- see above)
```
python critics/run.py --batch_size 32 --outdir OUT_DIR --model MLPSELU --lr 1e-5
```

# Critic-aware decoding

Put the checkpoint of fine-tuned LM model into `experiments/webnlg/CHECKPOINT_NAME` path. Our BART-based LM model fine-tuned on WebNLG can be downloaded from [here](http://ufallab.ms.mff.cuni.cz/~lango/webnlg-model.ckpt).
The checkpoint of a trained critic should be located in `CRITIC_CHECKPOINT_NAME`. The name of the output file with the decoded text is specified by `FILE_NAME`.
```
python3 ./nlg/bin/decode.py \
    --experiment webnlg \
    --checkpoint LM_CHECKPOINT_NAME \
    --in_dir data/webnlg \
    --split test \
    --accelerator gpu \
    --devices 1 \
    --beam_size 1 \
    --condition_lambda 0.25 \
    --critic_top_k 5 \
    --linear_warmup \
    --batch_size 8\
    --critic_ckpt CRITIC_CHECKPOINT_NAME \
    --out_filename FILE_NAME --wrapper classifier --load_in_8bit
```

Commit message:

Adding script to download WenNLG, Moving code to decoding

README.md, after:

# Critic-Driven Decoding for Mitigating Hallucinations in Data-to-text Generation

## Critic classifier training
If you want to use WebNLG data, you can download it with
```
python critics/dataset_generators/download-webnlg.py SPLIT_NAME
```

### Generating data

- ver 1. critic (base)
```
python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train_onlystop.py SPLIT_NAME
```
`SPLIT_NAME` is a placeholder for "train", "test", and "dev". To generate all necessary data, you should run the command three times i.e.
```
python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train_onlystop.py train
python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train_onlystop.py test
python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train_onlystop.py dev
```

- ver 2. critic (base with full sentences)
```
python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train.py SPLIT_NAME 
```
- ver 3. critic (vanilla LM)
```
python3 ./bin/decode.py \
    --model_name facebook/bart-base \
    --experiment webnlg \
    --in_dir data/webnlg \
    --split SPLIT_NAME \
    --accelerator gpu \
    --devices 1 \
    --beam_size 1 \
    --condition_lambda 1.0 \
    --critic_top_k 5 \
    --batch_size 8\
    --out_filename FILE_NAME --wrapper data --load_in_8bit
 ```
where `--model_name` is the name of LM used to generate data from huggingface (here: `facebook/bart-base`)
```
python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train_fromLM.py SPLIT_NAME FILE_NAME-data
```
- ver 4. critic (fine-tuned LM)

Put the checkpoint of fine-tuned language model into `experiments/webnlg/CHECKPOINT_NAME` path. Our BART-based LM model fine-tuned on WebNLG can be downloaded from `https://we.tl/t-1aufs3tnyS`
```
python3 ./bin/decode.py \
    --experiment webnlg \
    --checkpoint CHECKPOINT_NAME \
    --in_dir data/webnlg \
    --split SPLIT_NAME \
    --accelerator gpu \
    --devices 1 \
    --beam_size 1 \
    --condition_lambda 1.0 \
    --critic_top_k 5 \
    --batch_size 8\
    --out_filename FILE_NAME --wrapper data --load_in_8bit

python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train_fromLM.py SPLIT_NAME FILE_NAME-data
```
- ver 5. critic (fine-tuned LM with full sentences)
```
python3 ./bin/decode.py \
    --experiment webnlg \ 
    --checkpoint CHECKPOINT_NAME \
    --in_dir data/webnlg \
    --split SPLIT_NAME \
    --accelerator gpu \
    --devices 1 \
    --beam_size 1 \
    --condition_lambda 1.0 \
    --critic_top_k 5 \
    --batch_size 8\
    --out_filename FILE_NAME --wrapper data-full --load_in_8bit

python critics/dataset_generators/gen_train_fromLM.py SPLIT_NAME FILE_NAME-data
```
## Training the critic
Put the generated training data into OUT_DIR. The OUT_DIR directory should contain 3 files: `train.csv`, `test.csv`, and `dev.csv` with the training/test/validation data (these files should be generated by `gen_train*.py` scripts -- see above)
```
python critics/run.py --batch_size 32 --outdir OUT_DIR --model MLPSELU --lr 1e-5
```

# Critic-aware decoding

Put the checkpoint of fine-tuned LM model into `experiments/webnlg/CHECKPOINT_NAME` path. Our BART-based LM model fine-tuned on WebNLG can be downloaded from [here](http://ufallab.ms.mff.cuni.cz/~lango/webnlg-model.ckpt).
The checkpoint of a trained critic should be located in `CRITIC_CHECKPOINT_NAME`. The name of the output file with the decoded text is specified by `FILE_NAME`.
```
python3 ./bin/decode.py \
    --experiment webnlg \
    --checkpoint LM_CHECKPOINT_NAME \
    --in_dir data/webnlg \
    --split test \
    --accelerator gpu \
    --devices 1 \
    --beam_size 1 \
    --condition_lambda 0.25 \
    --critic_top_k 5 \
    --linear_warmup \
    --batch_size 8\
    --critic_ckpt CRITIC_CHECKPOINT_NAME \
    --out_filename FILE_NAME --wrapper classifier --load_in_8bit
```
